# Dicer-Blackjack-Dice-Game

### I put together the following python code for proof of concept on a Unity project idea we ended up calling Dicer.

### The basic premise of the game is to roll dice while trying to reach a certain sum and the dealer does the same. There are intricate rules for different values rolled which I will put below but the premise is very similar to Blackjack in the way you win.

#### Dicer Rules:

##### A player starts off with a certain amount of money and chose a table they would like to begin at, each table will have different difficulties.

##### Once the player sits down at a table, the player and the other automated players at the table will make bets to start a round. The player will receive two 6-sided dice that are rolled with the goal of the player being to get the sum of their dice values to 13. If any of the players dice is a one, they can either count its value as 1 or 7, like blackjacks ace (1 or 11). Once everybody at the table has received their two dice the dealer with roll both of their dice and only one of these dice will be visible to the players at the table. The dealer will then go around the table and give players the option to roll another dice to try and get their sum closer to 13 or stay. The player can add as few or as many rolled dice to their hand as they want until they reach a sum of over 13 in which they would lose their bet made at the start of the round or until they reach a sum value they are comfortable with at which point they can chose to stay. Once this process has completed for all players at the table, the dealer will then reveal its second dice. The dealer will then roll another dice if the sum of its current two dice is at or below 10. The dealer will repeat this process until they reach a value for the sum of their dice that is above 10. If the sum of the dealer’s dice is above 13, all players at the table that chose to stay and have not gone over the sum value of 13 with their dice will have their bets doubled. If the dealer does not go over 13 and ends up with a value of let’s say 11, all players that stayed with values of 11 or below will lose their bets and players with a value of 12 or 13 will see their bets doubled. The tie goes to the dealer so if the dealer has a sum value of 13 then even a player that rolls a 13 will lose their bet. After all the bets have either been doubled by the dealer or taken for each player, another round begins.

##### Up until this point the rules are very similar to blackjack with a few exceptions such as splitting cards and playing with two hands. This dice game has a little twist where if a player rolls snake eyes (two ones) their cards hold a sum value of 14 without busting. Here’s where it gets interesting, if this happens the dealer doubles the players bet and becomes irrelevant so the player holding snake eyes becomes the dealer. Other players at the table now can hold hands with values up to 14 so to not lose their bet they must roll dice until they have a sum value equalling 14 or above. If they reach a value of 14, they keep their bet, if they reach a value greater than 15, they lose their bet to the player with snake eyes. Important to note, snake eyes will only have this effect if they are the first two dice rolled for a player, in any other situation they behave normally as a 1 or 7 with the rules of reaching a sum of 13 or below unchanged.
